
		      Portable MPI Model Implementation

			 Version 1.2.2, August, 2001

                                 David Ashton
                                 Anthony Chan
				  Bill Gropp
				  Rusty Lusk
                                   Robb Ross
                                 Rajeev Thakur
                                 Brian Toonen

		  Mathematics and Computer Science Division
			 Argonne National Laboratory


MPICH is an open-source, portable implementation of the Message-Passing
Interface Standard.  It contains a complete implementation of version 1.2 of
the MPI Standard and also significant parts of MPI-2, particularly in the
area of parallel I/O.

The installation and user's manuals may be found in doc/install.ps.gz and
doc/guide.ps.gz respectively.  Man pages for each MPI routine, along with
commands for compiling and running MPI programs, are provided in the
directories man (Unix man format) and www (HTML).

Version 1.2.2 is primarily a bug-fix and improved-portability release,
particularly in the area of Linux support.  

There are a number of improvements to the ch_p4 device that improve both
performance and reliability, particularly on Linux platforms. 

Significant upgrades have been made to the MPD system of daemons that provide
fast startup of MPICH jobs, management of stdio, and a crude parallel debugger
based on gdb.  To use the MPD system, do

   configure --with-device=ch_p4mpd  <other configure arguments>

See the README file in the mpich/mpid/mpd directory and the MPICH User's Guide
for information on how to use the MPD system with MPICH.

The NT version of MPICH has been further enhanced and is
available separately; see the MPICH download page
http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich/download.html 

Known problems and bugs with this release are documented in the file
mpich/KnownBugs .

There is an FAQ at http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich/faq.html .  See this if
you get "permission denied", "connection reset by peer", or "poll: protocol
failure in circuit setup" when trying to run MPICH. 

A change log for all changes from the previous release is available from
http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich/r1_2_2changes.html .  

There is a paper on jumpshot available at
ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/mpi/jumpshot.ps.gz .
A paper on MPD is available at ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/mpd.ps.gz.


What's next:

We continue to enhance MPICH with a goal of full MPI-2 capability.  In
addition, we continue to explore ways to improve the performance of MPICH.  In
the queue are improved datatype handling and a new sockets implementation.  In
the longer term, a new ADI with better support for multithreaded applications
and new network approaches will be introduced.  One area where we'd like
contributions is better implementations of the collective routines.  Please
contact us if you'd like to contribute (send mail to gropp@mcs.anl.gov).

Reporting Bugs:

If you have trouble, first check the installation and user manuals (in 
mpich/doc/{guide,user}.ps.Z) .  Next, check the on-line bug list at
http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich .  Finally, if you are still having problems,
send

   The type of system (often, uname -a will give you this)
   The output of configure
   The output of make
   Any simple programs or tests

to mpi-bugs@mcs.anl.gov .  Please don't use the newsgroup comp.parallel.mpi ;
this newsgroup is for discussions about MPI, not any particular implementation
of MPI.

