.TH MPI_Testall 3 "6/26/1996" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Testall \-  Tests for the completion of all previously initiated communications 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Testall( count, array_of_requests, flag, array_of_statuses )
int        count;
MPI_Request array_of_requests[];
int        *flag;
MPI_Status *array_of_statuses;
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B count 
- lists length (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_requests 
- array of requests (array of handles) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B flag 
- (logical) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_statuses 
- array of status objects (array of Status) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
.I flag
is true only if all requests have completed.  Otherwise, flag is
false and neither the 
.I array_of_requests
nor the 
.I array_of_statuses
is
modified.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_IN_STATUS 
- The actual error value is in the 
.I MPI_Status
argument.
This error class is returned only from the multiple-completion routines
(
.I MPI_Testall
, 
.I MPI_Testany
, 
.I MPI_Testsome
, 
.I MPI_Waitall
, 
.I MPI_Waitany
,
and 
.I MPI_Waitsome
).  The field 
.I MPI_ERROR
in the status argument
contains the error value or 
.I MPI_SUCCESS
(no error and complete) or
.I MPI_ERR_PENDING
to indicate that the request has not completed.
.PD 1

.SH LOCATION
testall.c
