.TH MPI_Waitsome 3 "6/26/1996" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Waitsome \-  Waits for some given communications to complete 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Waitsome( incount, array_of_requests, outcount, array_of_indices, 
    array_of_statuses )
int         incount, *outcount, array_of_indices[];
MPI_Request array_of_requests[];
MPI_Status  array_of_statuses[];
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B incount 
- length of array_of_requests (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_requests 
- array of requests (array of handles) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B outcount 
- number of completed requests (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_indices 
- array of indices of operations that 
completed (array of integers) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_statuses 
- array of status objects for 
operations that completed (array of Status) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
The array of indicies are in the range 
.I 0
to 
.I incount - 1
for C and
in the range 
.I 1
to 
.I incount
for Fortran.

Null requests are ignored; if all requests are null, then the routine
returns with 
.I outcount
set to 
.I MPI_UNDEFINED
.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_REQUEST 
- Invalid 
.I MPI_Request
.  Either null or, in the case of a
.I MPI_Start
or 
.I MPI_Startall
, not a persistent request.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
waitsome.c
